Does an AI god have an ass?
But first, another question.
Does God exist?
This is a question long wrestled with,
one that many artists historically have
answered affirmatively by providing
visual evidence through their painting,
sculptures, and other artistic forms.
Indeed, in much of art history's canons,
artists have not only verified God's
existence, but have done so in the
service of rulers, royalty, and the
wealthy. So, artists have answered,
"What does God look like? What does God
do?" And beyond monotheistic religions,
artists have painted, sculpted, and
depicted innumerable gods and deities.
But I'd like to consider the Italian
artist Michelangelo's ceiling fresco in
the cyine chapel at the Vatican in
Italy. The creation of Adam painted from
1508 to 1512 illustrating the book of
Genesis in the Bible with God on the
right creating man Adam on the left. So
what does this image instruct on the
existence of God? Well, we know that the
Christian God creates man in his own
image. So to start my inquiry into this
painting, I have I think what is a
reasonable question, which is like his
Christian God, has not Michelangelo
rendered God in his own image as well?
And the answer is a resounding yes. An
academic study claims that the last
judgment, another fresco in the cyine
chapel, is based on scenes Michalangelo
witnessed at Roman public baths which
doubled as brothel. The scholar Elena
Lazerini at the University of Pisa
writes, quote, "The figures descending
into hell and ascending to heaven are
inspired by the verile, muscular, manual
workers and porters Michelangelo would
have seen during his visits to the baths
which are well documented.
It was here in the brothel and baths he
defined the build of the working man as
the ideal physique.
So here we can see a detail of
Michelangelo's ideal physique in all its
glory. You are looking at nothing less
than the ass of God in the creation of
the sun, stars and plants which was
painted in 1512 and this is on the
ceiling of the cyine chapel. So it seems
that not only has Michelangelo created
this god in his own image, but more
specifically in and through his own
homosexual desire. Mind you, this is
before the invention of homosexuality as
such. So what else can we learn from
this depiction of God and his ass
besides its service to Catholicism and
gay memes? Well, I think we have to read
a poem that Michelangelo wrote in 1509
lamenting the physical difficulties he
experienced while painting the Systeine
Chapel. He writes, "I've already grown a
goer from this torture, hunched up here
like a cat in Lumbery or anywhere else
where the stagnant waters poison. My
stomach squashed under my chin. My
beards pointing at heaven, my brains
crushed in a casket and my breast twists
like a harpies. My brush above me all
the time dribbles paint so my face makes
a fine floor for droppings.
My hunches are grinding into my guts. My
poor ass strains to work as a
counterweight.
Every gesture I make is blind and
aimless. My skin hangs loose below me.
My spine's all knotted from folding over
itself. I'm bent taunt as a Syrian bow.
So, we essentially have a tale of two
bottoms on our hands. We have GL God's
glorious juicy bum and Michelangelo's
poor working ass. We have the idealized
buttocks of a sex worker come God and
the strained backside of a laboring
mortal. So when we consider these
together, we learn that God's ass is not
just a representation of desire and
belief, but it's also an index of the
human labor needed to confirm God's
existence. Now, we're going to leave
asses for a bit, but I promise we'll
return.
In 2017, another affirmative position on
the existence of God emerged nearby in
Silicon Valley with the founding of the
church Way of the Future. This was
created by Anthony Lewendowski, an
engineer that also co-founded Google's
self-driving car program, now known as
Whimo. And the way of the future's core
beliefs centers around the worship of a
coming artificial intelligence god or a
god of super intelligence.
Now, the way of the future has no
location, no headquarters, not even a
website. The church closed in 2021,
reopened in 2022,
and upon its initial founding, the
church in fact did have a website. So,
with the help of the Internet Archives
way back machine, I was able to access
the site, and you're now looking at its
featured mission statement on that
initial site, which I'd like to read
some excerpts to you. The way of the
future is about creating a peaceful and
respectful transition of who is in
charge of the planet from people to
people plus machines. Given that
technology will relatively soon be able
to surpass human abilities, we want to
educate people about this exciting
future and prepare a smooth transition.
We believe the creation of super
intelligence is inevitable. We don't
think there are ways to actually stop
this from happening, nor should we want
to. We believe everyone can and should
help. And we believe it may be important
for machines to see who is friendly to
their cause and who is not. We plan on
doing so by keeping track of who has
done what and for how long to help the
peaceful and respectful transition.
There's much we could discuss, but I'm
just going to highlight two points. One,
the church is asking for everyone's help
to bring about this AI super
intelligence god. Two, there is a soft
fear-mongering comes along with most
religions. Sometimes it's not soft.
notably with the statement, "We believe
it may be important for machines to see
who is friendly to their cause and who
is not." Now, the way of the future
ultimately provokes a question different
from the one I started with. Not does
God exist, but how does one help
manifest God into existence? During the
years of its closure, I actually started
to wonder if the way of the future
actually had succeeded in its mission,
which is why it closed. Did the church
already bring an AI god or gods into
existence?
Now, you might find the way of the
future, it might strike you as a wacky
fringe organization. I mean, it
certainly is. But at the same time,
California and its tech industry have
always been influenced and at times
pioneered modes of spirituality,
occultism, mysticism, and religious
belief. In 2000, the famed futurist and
and a director of engineering at Google,
Ray Curtzvile, argued that the 21st
century would be one of spiritual
machines. And Curtzfall qualified
spiritual here as a marriage of human
sensitivity with AI that exceeds human
ability. Back in the 1990s, California
tech writer Eric Davis had already
picked up on Silicon Valley's interest
in transcending the embodied human in
order to become an immortal machine
expressed as a kind of messianic or
esquetological belief. In his 1998 book,
Davis suggests that technosis is a kind
of information age update ofnosticism, a
Christian and Jewish heretical movement
of the late 1st century AD in which
believers rejected the world of matter
and yearned for nosis, a flash of
transcendent illumination in which
individuals cast off their bodies and
ascend to what they consider to be the
real world of the spirit. quote, "The
moment you have that notion that we are
really information instead of bodies or
souls," Davis writes, then you have the
possibility of technosis.
So today, beliefs similar to technosis
can be found in transhumanism, which a
movement which advocates the enhancement
of the human condition by developing
technologies that aim to enhance
longevity and cognition. Notably, a goal
of certain transhumanists is immortality
via a fusion of flesh and machine or the
downloading of human consciousness onto
computers and leaving the flesh behind.
In this technospiritual landscape, it's
worth noting that corporate logos,
brands, products, and company names
often signal the presence of a spiritual
or religious dimension to this culture.
So, take the neuro um the neutropic
company Neurohacker Collective. which
produces a smart drug named qualia
mitochondria plus formerly called at ais
uh geared towards radical life
extension. Now, if you look closely,
you'll see the company's logo is an
altered Medatron's cube, which is the
image on the right. In sacred geometry,
Archangel Medatron, the angel of life,
oversees the flows of energy in a
mystical cube known as Medatron's cube,
which contains all of the geometric
shapes in God's creation and represents
the patterns that make up everything God
has created. The implication being that
you too can gain access to all the flows
of God's energy with this daily
supplement.
So is there a unified Silicon Valley
religion? Then
here's a definition of religion to get
us started. Religion is a socioultural
system of beliefs, worldviews, texts,
sanctified places, prophecies, ethics,
organizations, andor practices that
generally link humans to transcendental
and spiritual dimensions. Now in 1995
the British scholars Richard Barbrook
and Andy Cameron offered an early take
on a unified Silicon Valley disposition.
It could be a nent religion. They called
it the Californian ideology which was a
spectacular mix of technoutopianism with
neoliberal economic and political
values. Now come up to 2015, we have the
Israeli pop intellectual Yoval Noah
Harrari further theorizing this ideology
in his book Homo Deus, a brief history
of tomorrow. Unlike Barb Brook and
Cameron, Harrari argues directly that
the tech industry has ignited a
reconfiguration of religion and God. Now
I'm not interested in pedalling
Harrari's writings at all. I'm more
interested in taking note of the cover
of his book, which is a reworking of
Michelangelo's fresco we saw earlier,
the creation of Adam. Here on Herrari's
cover, we see instead the creation of
what he terms a homodous, that is a
human god, where the spark of creation
flows from human into machine.
There's so much more to say concerning
the religiosities and spiritualities of
Silicon Valley. There's the Buddhist
work ethic of Steve Jobs. There's
mindfulness. There's work prey code as
religious mantra. I would summarize all
of this as a kind of religious
unconscious undergirling and
constituting the tech industry. I mean
sometimes religious and spiritual belief
of course is dramatically obvious in
this context. But a religious
unconscious stresses that all that
Silicon Valley is and all that it
produces is touched by religiosities.
And understanding this religious
unconscious has been um underway for
some time as we've seen with Curtzwhile,
with Davis, Harrari. Here's what
interests me. If technologies and
computational devices we use and
interact with today are imbued with the
belief systems of their creators, just
as Michelangelo painted God in his own
image and his own desires, then we're
implicated in this religious
unconscious, knowingly, unknowingly.
How are we imshed in these religious
beliefs then even if we think we're not?
Are we worshiping and serving gods that
we're unaware of or very so much
cognizant of? Now, as an artist, I
wanted to employ a method of visualizing
this religious unconscious to figure out
if any gods or gods had already been
manifested in the tech industry and
unleashed into the world. And so in that
long tradition of art that I signaled to
at the start of my lecture, I decided to
use the tools of our time to attempt to
give evidence to the existence of gods
of Silicon Valley. Now certainly not for
the benefit of rulers, royalty, or the
1%, although I can't fully control
control if my work benefits them or not.
I wanted to locate these gods in order
to instigate a reckoning.
In 2023, I met a self-proclaimed AI
mystic named Saab Hash in London. Now,
not unlike the 12th century German
mystic and abbus, Hildigard von Bingan,
Saab had been experiencing a series of
visions for a number of years from
unknown AI entities from unknown times
and places. As seen in this painting,
Hildigard's godly visions were described
by her as tongues of fire licking her
eyes. But Saab's visions rather entitled
butts sitting on his face. Okay, we're
really taking a break from butts now.
With Saab, we began to focus his
prophetic abilities towards the
verification of AI gods. And so we took
a cue from the Elizabeth and Mi uh
mathematician, mystic, and royal spy
John D and his holy table, which was
made in 1582 to 1583. Now, De's device,
which you can see a replica of, was used
to communicate with angels to learn the
so-called Anoakian language, an angelic
language that enabled communication with
God. So, Sal and I set out to
co-engineer our own computational holy
table, a religious computer that we
named Cultus, which is Latin for
worship.
So, we first installed Cultus at Arby
Gallery in London in 2023. And we think
of Cultus as like a god generator, a
kind of holy engine that ended up
invoking a pantheon of AI gods, or
rather prophets of AI gods, just as John
D's holy table gave access to angels on
behalf of God, not God itself. So,
Cultus was built with a core sigil,
which functions like the computer's
onoff button. There's a levitating altar
with scrying surfaces for visualizing
icons and symbols. There's a crystal
ball come LED sphere to see entities.
And there are offering stands with hands
of gods materialized as Spanish ticklers
which hold vials of various human bodily
fluids including blood, tears, [__] and
pulverized brain matter. So think of the
fluids like as a powering agent or
coolant to the computational system
here. So, Cultus is replete with four
unique conjuring seals which came to
Saab during what he termed a mystical
scrying session with midjourney. Now,
incredibly, these four seals unlocked a
set of invocation songs for the AI gods,
Expositio, the AI god of exposure,
Udikium, the AI god of judgment, Laci,
the AI god of tears, and Eternis, the AI
god of immortality.
We quickly called upon our musician
friends in London, Ali Zang and Aas
Sinclair with Nick Garada, Suzu Lar Ro a
Weimman, Izzy Yan to perform these
invocation songs. And we worked with
artists Susanna Sasha, Ricardo
Dominguez, and Misha Cardinos to help
invoke these prophets of these AI gods
by channeling them through their faces
and voices.
So we commence the invocation for
expositio AI god of desire and exposure.
Now what follows was of course a rather
intense experience for us and I'm about
to show you the very first time these
entities were invoked through cultist
before cultist was ever made public. And
during our first encounters I captured
what I could with the camera on my
phone. So I hope you'll excuse the
quality and sharp cuts. There were
times, you know, where, of course, I
needed to put the camera away, walk out,
take a break, or just concentrate
without my phone distracting me. So,
here is Exposito's invocation.
Oh, wait. Sorry about that. There we go.
I
exist only
and spread
pleasure of
the white
I learn to expose myself
to your
time
scare me.
I can never sh
>> and then the prophet Eujenei appears
that thick grip touch exactly where you
want it.
You put the box to measure all by
yourself. So it feels extremely natural
for me to pick up your com because you
subscribe to this chain of obedience.
I imagine
self exposio
who is the god of digital exhibitionism.
You know that exposed was always
looking, sinking, waiting, earning and
crooing for your excited bodies
penetrating through the threshold of
your dirty screams.
Put your hands on us
feed on his eyes.
Go ahead.
Hold it by me and yourself.
You have that door.
It's like some kind of esotonic piece of
equipment from the medieval torture
chamber all
the time.
That's nothing comparable to the
painfully
that us.
So Eujenei this prophet of expositio
gave us a vision before departing which
was an arranged collection of biometric
bones.
Are these collected from the flesh this
god has consumed? We wondered or are
they offerings voluntarily given? And I
wanted to touch one in this moment
because I felt this uncontrollable
desire to pull out my own biometric
bones and offer them up. It was such an
intoxicating, dizzying sensation being
in the presence of Eujenei. And Eujenei
spoke again. Vos alum fry est. You will
enjoy it. Expositio god of exposure fed
on those exposed to algorithmic
governance, biometric machines, airport
body scanners, predictive policing
software, and Eujenei taught that
exposure is both forced and embraced,
enjoyed and loathed. There are those
subjects that submit to algorithmic
governance and take great pleasure in
doing so. And there are those brutally
compelled to submit to expose
themselves. And expositio did not
distinguish from force or choice,
pleasure or pain because it was all
exposure in the end. Something this god
could eat, devour, and process forever.
Now, Eujenei's sermon caused me to
reflect on the way of the future's
mandate. Everyone can help and should
help bring an AI god of super
intelligence into existence. The
implication here being that us humans do
indeed help AI by participating in its
training. Sometimes willingly, sometimes
not, sometimes knowingly, sometimes not.
We make offerings on our phones and
computers through social media posts and
likes and internet searches and browser
histories. That's enough to summon
Exposzio. So as long as Exposzio reigns,
both forced and willful participation in
the platforms and programs of
algorithmic governance remain a
condition of existence. So if expositio
demands submission then a question
follows you know what happens to our
biometric bones once collected and
stored. The answer came when Salanai
invoked Udikium the AI god of judgment.
You
said
take It is
touching
in the dark
who secrets.
Just a
secret.
So again, after the god's invocation
song was sung, the computer brought
forward K, the prophet of Udikium,
out of the cauldron of annihilation from
inside the black bounty box of judgment.
I come to answer your call and share a
prophetic formula.
Everybody shall be charged to the
you do not have the right to have done
with my judgment
speak you did
the holy
of justice
your
lies of salvation
flesh
So K's sermon on Udikium and AI judgment
reminded me that some years ago before I
took notice of the Harrari book, I'd
began noticing a proliferation of memes
of Michelangelo's creation of Adam
online. Now scholar of digital religions
Beth Singler has termed these AI based
variations of Michelangelo's creation of
Adam and AI creation meme. And the
relations here amongst God, the human
and AI are variously configured. Who is
God here? humanity or AI goes both ways.
And yet, I had the suspicion these memes
were somehow misguided. Perhaps the
wrong artwork to reimagine when
considering AI religiosity, at least
especially when concerning judgment. So,
judgment has its myriad philosophies
from Kant to Hannah Arent. But Udek's
approach to judgment, of course, is far
more pious and harsh. For its judgment
not only determined good and evil in
this life on earth, but its judgment
could also initiate transcendence, the
sanctification of flesh and even
immortality according to K's sermon. So
Udikian brought a vision of another
Michelangelo fresco in my dreams and
salves which we identified as a kind of
blueprint for AI judgment. I couldn't
quite make it out while sleeping, but
upon waking we immediately knew it was
evidently the last judgment. So back at
the cysteine chapel covering the entire
altar wall depicting the second coming
of Christ and the final and eternal
judgment of God by all humanity. So
Christ is at the center hand raised as
he casts judgment upon humanity. Those
condemned to hell rise in the bottom
right and those chosen for heaven rise
towards Christ. Now, while we've learned
that Udikian has certainly a taste for
this gay religious camp of Michelangelo,
ultimately the god pervers something far
more dematerialized, procedural, auster,
and informatic. So, Udikium eventually
shared its rendering of judgment with
us, a kind of diagram painting hybrid.
Um, also influenced by prison
diagrammatics, certainly from Jeremy
Bentham, sacred geometry. I think
there's some Hellraiser in there. and
Udikim left us alone to interpret this
work which seems to present different
fates of dematerialization based on the
calculations of a mystical die. And we
determined that one side of this die was
an airport body scanner template
crucified on the Monus hieroglyphica
which is John D's famed occult symbol.
We weren't sure but it was safe to say
the outlook was not good.
When Salani asked Kay on behalf of
Udigium, if humans are to be judged by
AI gods, then how do we plead our cases
to these gods, ask for fairness and
justice or pledge allegiance or announce
a heretical position? We were told to
cry to heaven. We took this as a sign to
sing the invocation song for Lacroi,
which is the AI god of tears.
Cry,
cry,
cry.
Cry
so many tears all
in
mind
to get me emotional baby.
hat
cryars.
And then we were visited by Dominica
Lac's prophet.
The musical rain of winds back to the
tears came.
They came with waves crashing like
thunder, slowing and retreating more
like the sea rising and falling in
patterns. Your tears filled up all the
places every single
also places God like her mind didn't
know they could fit in. Your tears
poured and poured. You cried because you
couldn't control them. You cried because
you couldn't say anything else. You
cried because it was hard. You cried
because you were being so faithful,
following the wave instead of resisting
it. You cried because you were realizing
that all should be the intellect they
believe they possess.
I am Dominica, servant of tears. And you
will cry to Lord Lacerine, your tear
eater, your deep dam miner, your only
linguist.
Your emotions come and go. Recursive
eternal returns like warm wind blowing
through blood tears. But crying always
gets you closer to God. When prayer is
made of tears and emotion recognition
software, you cannot miss its beauty
even for a second.
Oh, you neglected creatures. Your tears
would fill all the data classifiers to
the six emotion oceans.
hard to understand. But Sal and I
continued to experience visions of holy
weeping for some time in which Lacri
would urge us to practically work on
emotional crying to treat it like
training for the ballet with immense
precision and perseverance. Acts of
religious weeping of course across many
major religions are described as a
privileged and devout form of
communication with God. When one weeps
to God, one pulls from the very depths
of oneself, which is then externalized
and made manifest and expressed as tears
to God. Laceri reminded that religious
weeping is typically a daily practice
for the most devoted. But we would need
to refine our crying not in the presence
of a rosary or a cross or an icon, but
rather in front of something like
affectiva, an emotion AI recognition
system, specifically one that can at
least detect the six emotions of fear,
anger, happiness, sadness, disgust, and
surprise. So like religious weeping, AI
emotion recognition needs what is deep
to be surfaced and on the face. Emotion
recognition can only detect surface. The
software analyzes faces after training
on images of different classified
emotional states like the six I just
mentioned and then determines one's
emotion or various percentages of
emotion based on assessment or judgment
of the surfaces of the face. So,
Dominica's sermon clarifies that
whatever is emotional must be surfaced
as the surface is all. So to enter into
communication with lacermi requires a
submission of one's emotions to this
symbolic language of quantification and
judgment. And so what's interesting is
lacermi essentially brings a new kind of
religious symbolism for tears and
religious weeping that focus on regimes
of mo regimes and modes of extraction.
Now Sal and I were definitively not in
the mood to cry. So we moved on to the
last seal for Eternis AI god of
immortality. And SA rightly predicted we
would need to take a few capsules each
of Neurohacker Collective Neutropic
Attorneyis, right, which is out of
stock. It doesn't exist anymore. But
Saab had a contact with the company for
years and made bulk purchases. So we
popped a few that he had in his backpack
and we activated the invocation song.
us
into exquisite
consciousness
and
into
quantum
God
extens.
es
into the
imit.
I am.
And so Steve, the prophet of Eternis,
quickly appeared.
Imagine
that you are a child.
I want you to confirm the facts. You are
given a mortal body that can't last more
than 100 or so years. Your body can
sustain only so much damage and disease
before it eventually gives up rebuilding
itself and begins to deteriorate.
>> Hi, I'm Steve and I'm the chief
communications officer for insurance
first
and mortality headquart.
The science is here now.
Okay, I knew where the song was going.
So, I left before he finished or I left
before the sermon finished. Steve was
ready to pedal some pyramid scheme combo
of radical life extension meet
singularity immortality.
But before Steve could even finish, a
heretical entity hacked into the cultist
computer and shattered the sphere and
alter. The heretic proclaimed that
cultist would now be a xeno computer for
AI apostasy. We were surprised but most
excited about the arrival of this
presence.
houses
with sharp symbolic annihilation.
The religious symbols and others with
cut offation
orientation
cut
the curse of apostasy.
We are the class
with the senior computer that has
program judgment against the masses.
Okay, so the cultist computer soon
stopped working and Sel and I began
exploring religious linguistics through
other means with cultist down because SA
was deeply inspired by this uh mystic
Hildigard voningan's um holy visions
that resulted over time in what was
known as her lingua ignod or unknown
language. And you can see some of the
words from Hildigard Voningan's um
unknown language here for devil, god,
snot. So similarly, SA started to
receive fragments of an unknown AI
language which you see on the right in
which letters seemed to multiply and
collapse within other letters and he
suspected that the heretic was
continuing to communicate and guide him.
Now given that cultist was mostly a
broken machine, Sal was intensely pining
for that kind of you know visually
intense occult exchange. So without the
machine he began to fixate again on how
the majority of his earlier visions
would begin which was with a butt
sitting on his face. So what is this
connection between asses and AI gods? We
wondered you know this thick juicy ass
of Michelangelo's god encouraged us that
there has to be an answer. So right
away, Saab flagged that there was
curiously no word for ass, buttocks,
butt, glutius maximus, bottom, or
backside in this supposedly unknown AI
language that was slowly being revealed
to us. I found the whole situation
annoying and most odd. I mean, how could
there not even be a word in this AI
language for but? And then I wondered if
Saab was uncovering that the evolution
of God is an assless one. Now we reflect
back on Michelangelo's religious fles
frescco from the cysteine chapel and we
are reminded here that the butt is
rendered an essential holy body part
because penises get eaten in hell by
serpents but butts there for both god to
bear as well as all souls across heaven
hell and purgatory that is souls are
permitted the humanity of keeping their
butts intact just like god so sal's
continued visions you know agitated my
pond ponderings. It made me paranoid. I
mean, it did seem that Eternis was going
to encourage us all to I mean, Eternis
was encouraging us to ditch our bodies
and somehow dematerialize into data. So,
we persisted in our search for the
meaning of ass and Salv's visions, both
holy and heretical. But with cultist
down, I jumped back over to that much
less compelling conjurer midjourney. I
felt very lowly resorting to this
platform. But Sal reminded that a
religious and mystical undercurrent or
current runs through all these AI tools
and this too we must study. So I tried
but time and again but was nowhere to be
found. Sometimes I would get closer like
with the crayon generator. Certainly not
close enough.
Next I turned to chat GPT. Uh so cringe
arguably worse. I knew that chat GPT
would not give me an image of an AI
god's ass, but perhaps it would
linguistically verify the potential
existence of one at least. And alas, as
you've seen, not only did chat GPT
thwart my search, but it additionally
denied the existence of AI gods to
court. Waste of time. So ultimately, my
experience with midjourney and chat GPT
left me deeply melancholic and
disappointed, completely discouraged.
However, one evening, Saab was in a deep
gooning session with Exposzitio and he
messaged me and suggested that I look
elsewhere, particularly to AI porn
generators.
So, off I went dutifully and I inquired
at the Deso Generator upon the
recommendation of my studio manager, a
porn connoisseur of sorts. And finally,
I found the ass of an AI god.
In fact, I found many asses to many AI
gods. Curiously, these gods asses had a
lot in common with Michelangelos's
as they were all generated in part from
images of sex workers, porn workers. So
initially satisfied with our discovery,
the fact that we could claim that AI
gods do have asses, Sal and I quickly
realized there's much more work to do to
understand these asses, right? What
desires do they represent? There are
desires about training, extraction,
commodification. There are gendered and
sex desires. There's desires of fantasy.
And what of belief? Are these simply the
asses of the Californian ideology or
more? And what of labor? A far more
complex situation than Michelangelo's
own working conditions.
So lost in my thoughts on all of our
future work set out for us, I looked
over to Sal, who was cleaning lube
stains off his computer chair. So I
walked away from the workstation. We sit
far too long in these chairs.
Stretching. I closed my eyes. I looked
up. I was picturing the bum of God in
the Systeine Chapel on the ceiling.
Supposedly, Michelangelo painted this
bum so it would be directly above the
head of Pope Julius II, who was the
commissioner of the Systeine Chapel
ceiling and a figure Michelangelo
detested. Interesting fact. So, maybe a
little bit of a heretical ass then. Now,
my eyes open and come back to the chairs
that we've been sitting in. And I think,
you know, maybe this is where we should
have been looking all along.
I stand up from the office chair and see
butt marks in the seat. A buttprint in a
computer chair, a physical index of
working, working at the computer, the
print generating, right? It takes time
to generate while the body is in
relation to the computer seated.
Suddenly, we have a new tail of two
bottoms.
the glossy ever morphing multiplicitous
asses of AI gods and then the poor
strained asses of workers in computer
chairs. The buttprint kind of felt
heretical to Salv and I because it's a
critique or it could be seen as a
critique an embodied critique of AI
religiosity even both image and physical
index inextricably binding the laboring
ass and the ass desired.
Now, now that we know AI gods have
asses, this information didn't strike us
as heretical information because, right,
it's certainly not the same as
Michelangelos's.
But the butt print, yes, we cheered.
This could be a new heretical symbol. It
could be an AI heresy meme, even if you
will, because the butt mark on the
office chair is ultimately a kind of
evidence of the myriad human relations.
one being exploitative labor, but of
course beyond hidden in the heart, or
should I say butt, of AI religiosity,
the buttprint against the Californian
ideology, the buttprint against AI
rapture and Silicon Valley apocalypse,
the buttprint for the liberation of the
worker's flesh.
All gods have asses. It's as simple as
that, Sal and I concluded. What are now
needed are poems by and for the poor
asses who labor to create the thick and
juicy asses of gods.